README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/AndrewRadev/ember_tools.vim.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/AndrewRadev/ember_tools.vim)

## Usage

This plugin contains various tools to work with ember.js projects. After installing it, just editing files in an ember.js project should be enough to activate them. It's similar to (and inspired by) [rails.vim](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails).

The tools work both for javascript and coffeescript, and they support both the handlebars and emblem templating languages.

It's recommended to also use the [vim-projectionist](https://github.com/tpope/vim-projectionist) plugin for easier navigation through the project. Here's a sample json file you might use with it: https://gist.github.com/AndrewRadev/3524ee46bca8ab349329. It sets up the major file types you might want to navigate to, and it connects routes, controllers, and templates, so that the `:A` command jumps from route to controller, to template, and then back to the route.

A list of the different tools that the plugin provides follows.

### gf

This plugin sets a special `includeexpr` that does a good job of locating files based on contextual information. This includes not only `gf`, but the entire family of mappings that depends on `includeexpr`, like `<c-w>f`. From now on, for clarity, only "gf" will be used.

#### gf: Routes

Pressing `gf` on a route in the `app/routes.js` file will open the relevant route file. This attempts to respect nesting as well, so as long as your routes don't do anything too fancy, the plugin will probably manage to find out where it's supposed to go. For example:

``` javascript
Router.map(function() {
  this.route('foo', function() {
    this.route('bar-baz');
  })
});
```

Pressing `gf` on "bar-baz" will jump to "app/routes/foo/bar-baz.js", provided that file exists.

You can also use it with `transitionTo` and `transitionToRoute` calls:

``` javascript
beforeModel() {
  this.transitionTo('foo.bar-baz');
}
```

#### gf: Components in templates

Pressing `gf` on a component name in a template files will jump to that component's template. For example:

``` handlebars
<header>
  {{header-navigation user=currentUser}}
</header>
```

Pressing `gf` while on "header-navigation" will jump to "app/components/header-navigation/template.hbs", or "app/templates/components/header-navigation.hbs", if any of those files exists.

#### gf: Actions in templates

Pressing `gf` on an action name in a template files will jump to the current template's controller or component, and jump to the particular action. So, having a file like this:

``` handlebars
<header>
  {{header-navigation onHover=(action 'showTooltip')}}
</header>
```

Pressing `gf` while on "showTooltip" will jump to the current template's controller/component file and find the "showTooltip" action.

#### gf: Injection

If you have a service defined in the file "app/services/cookie-settings.js", then you can jump to that file while hitting `gf` on the point of injection of the service:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Service.extend({
  cookieSettings: Ember.inject.service()
  // ...
});
```

A `gf` on "cookieSettings" will jump to the right file, if it exists. If you invoke the service with `this.get`, you can also `gf` there as well:

``` javascript
this.get('cookieSettings.someProperty');
```

A `gf` on "cookieSettings" in the `get` will also work, as long as there's an injection line in the file.

The same thing works for injection of controllers:

``` javascript
export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  exampleController: Ember.inject.controller('example')
});
```

#### gf: Explicit entity name

With an explicit `layoutName`, `templateName`, or `controllerName`, you can `gf` on the declaration to jump directly to it:

``` javascript
export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  layoutName: 'some/template/name'
});
```

#### gf: Models

If you have a method call that is related to a model, then a `gf` on it will jump to that model. For instance,

``` javascript
export default Ember.Model.extend({
  user: DS.belongsTo("user")
});
```

A `gf` on the "user" in the `belongsTo` call will jump to the user model, if it exists. The method calls that work this way are:

- `createRecord`
- `modelFor`
- `belongsTo`
- `hasMany`

#### gf: Partials

With a `partial` call in the template, you can `gf` directly to the referred template:

``` javascript
{{partial "partials/foo-bar/baz"}}
```

#### gf: Imports

If you have import lines, like this:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';
import ControllerCommonMixin from '../../mixins/controller-common';
import OtherMixin from 'app-name/mixins/other';

export default Ember.Controller.extend(ControllerCommonMixin, OtherMixin)
```

Using `gf` on "../../mixins/controller-common" will send you to the right file, relative to the current one. Using `gf` on "app-name/mixins/other" will also send you to the right file, provided there's a `package.json` file in the app root that defines the app name.

### :Extract

The `:Extract` command is invoked on a range of lines, usually in visual mode. It's only defined in templating languages (handlebars or emblem). It takes the selected lines and moves them to a separate component's template. It also creates a placeholder component file for them.

So, if you have a template that looks like this:

``` handlebars
<header>
  <ul>
    <li>{{#link-to 'index'}}Home{{/link-to}}</li>
    <li>{{#link-to 'login'}}Login{{/link-to}}</li>
  </ul>
</header>
```

You can mark everything within the `<header>` tag and execute this command:

``` vim
:Extract header-navigation
```

This will create the following files:

- `app/components/header-navigation/component.js`
- `app/components/header-navigation/template.hbs`

The original template will now look like this:

``` handlebars
<header>
  {{header-navigation}}
</header>
```

And the header-navigation template file will be opened in a split window and will contain:

``` handlebars
<ul>
  <li>{{#link-to 'index'}}Home{{/link-to}}</li>
  <li>{{#link-to 'login'}}Login{{/link-to}}</li>
</ul>
```

If the original template is an emblem one, the component will also have an emblem template, but if you'd like to specify explicitly what templates you prefer, set the `g:ember_tools_default_logic_filetype` and/or `g:ember_tools_default_template_filetype` configuration variables.

### :Unpack

The `:Unpack` command helps you unpack an imported variable into its component pieces. An example might looks something like this:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  foo: Ember.computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
});
```

Running the `:Unpack` command with the cursor on `Ember.Controller` would lead to the following result:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { Controller } = Ember;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: Ember.computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
});
```

The command creates a `const { ... } = ` line that unpacks the `Ember` variable's `Controller` component into its own variable.

You can continue to run `:Unpack` on, for instance, `Ember.computed.equal`, and then once again on the remaining `computed.equal` (if you have [repeat.vim](https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat) installed, you can just trigger the `.` mapping) to get:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { Controller, computed } = Ember;
const { equal } = computed;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: equal('bar', 'baz')
});
```

The command adds new entries to the end of the list. If you'd like to sort them in some way afterwards, you can try using a different plugin of mine, [sideways](https://github.com/AndrewRadev/sideways.vim).

### :Inline

The `:Inline` command inlines an "unpacked" variable. If you have code like this:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { computed, Controller } = Ember;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
  bar: computed.equal('baz', 'qux')
});
```

Running `:Inline` on `computed` within the `const { ... }` definition will remove it from that list and replace it across the file (ignoring strings and comments) with `Ember.computed`.

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { Controller } = Ember;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: Ember.computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
  bar: Ember.computed.equal('baz', 'qux')
});
```

For now, this is simply a reversal of the `:Unpack` command. In the future, the `:Inline` command might also inline other kinds of constructs, like local variables or properties.

## Settings

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_default_logic_filetype = 'coffee'
```

Default value: javascript

This variable controls the default logic filetype the plugin will use. In general, it'll try to use the same filetype as the current file (javascript or coffeescript), but in situations when it can't guess, it'll read this variable to find the "default" preference.

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_default_template_filetype = 'emblem'
```

Default value: handlebars

This variable controls the default template filetype the plugin will use. In general, it'll try to use the same filetype as the current file (handlebars or emblem), but in situations when it can't guess, it'll read this variable to find the "default" preference.

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_custom_gf_callbacks = ['SomeFunctionName']
```
Default value: []

This variable allows the user to set up custom callbacks for the `gf` mapping. It should be a list of function names. The plugin will call those without any arguments, in order, and if any of them return anything that's not an empty string, it'll stop execution and use that as the result.

The current directory for the duration of the callback will be the ember root. Also, at this time, the `iskeyword` parameter will be set to include the "." and "/" characters, in order to make it easier to match some ember identifiers. Feel free to change it in your callbacks, it will be reset once the callback is done.

An example of what you could potentially do can be found in this gist: https://gist.github.com/AndrewRadev/c62132f96deca165b8969eba7bc1dc13

There's quite a few project-specific things, which is why it's not a general-purpose callback. There's also a few invocations of the plugin's public API, which, unfortunately, you would have to read the source code to understand.

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_extract_behaviour = 'component-dir'
```

Default value: "separate-template"

This setting controls the behaviour of `:Extract` regarding what kind of files to generate and where. The options are:

- "separate-template" (the default):
    - Component file: `app/components/<component-name>.js`
    - Template file: `app/templates/components/<component-name>.hbs`
- "component-dir"
    - Component file: `app/components/<component-name>/component.js`
    - Template file: `app/components/<component-name>/template.hbs`

The file extensions might not be "js" and "hbs", depending on what the current filetype is and what other settings are set to.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome, but take a look at [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/AndrewRadev/ember_tools.vim/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first for some guidelines.

Commit message:

Going to a template via `this.render`

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/AndrewRadev/ember_tools.vim.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/AndrewRadev/ember_tools.vim)

## Usage

This plugin contains various tools to work with ember.js projects. After installing it, just editing files in an ember.js project should be enough to activate them. It's similar to (and inspired by) [rails.vim](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails).

The tools work both for javascript and coffeescript, and they support both the handlebars and emblem templating languages.

It's recommended to also use the [vim-projectionist](https://github.com/tpope/vim-projectionist) plugin for easier navigation through the project. Here's a sample json file you might use with it: https://gist.github.com/AndrewRadev/3524ee46bca8ab349329. It sets up the major file types you might want to navigate to, and it connects routes, controllers, and templates, so that the `:A` command jumps from route to controller, to template, and then back to the route.

A list of the different tools that the plugin provides follows.

### gf

This plugin sets a special `includeexpr` that does a good job of locating files based on contextual information. This includes not only `gf`, but the entire family of mappings that depends on `includeexpr`, like `<c-w>f`. From now on, for clarity, only "gf" will be used.

#### gf: Routes

Pressing `gf` on a route in the `app/routes.js` file will open the relevant route file. This attempts to respect nesting as well, so as long as your routes don't do anything too fancy, the plugin will probably manage to find out where it's supposed to go. For example:

``` javascript
Router.map(function() {
  this.route('foo', function() {
    this.route('bar-baz');
  })
});
```

Pressing `gf` on "bar-baz" will jump to "app/routes/foo/bar-baz.js", provided that file exists.

You can also use it with `transitionTo` and `transitionToRoute` calls:

``` javascript
beforeModel() {
  this.transitionTo('foo.bar-baz');
}
```

#### gf: Components in templates

Pressing `gf` on a component name in a template files will jump to that component's template. For example:

``` handlebars
<header>
  {{header-navigation user=currentUser}}
</header>
```

Pressing `gf` while on "header-navigation" will jump to "app/components/header-navigation/template.hbs", or "app/templates/components/header-navigation.hbs", if any of those files exists.

#### gf: Actions in templates

Pressing `gf` on an action name in a template files will jump to the current template's controller or component, and jump to the particular action. So, having a file like this:

``` handlebars
<header>
  {{header-navigation onHover=(action 'showTooltip')}}
</header>
```

Pressing `gf` while on "showTooltip" will jump to the current template's controller/component file and find the "showTooltip" action.

#### gf: Injection

If you have a service defined in the file "app/services/cookie-settings.js", then you can jump to that file while hitting `gf` on the point of injection of the service:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Service.extend({
  cookieSettings: Ember.inject.service()
  // ...
});
```

A `gf` on "cookieSettings" will jump to the right file, if it exists. If you invoke the service with `this.get`, you can also `gf` there as well:

``` javascript
this.get('cookieSettings.someProperty');
```

A `gf` on "cookieSettings" in the `get` will also work, as long as there's an injection line in the file.

The same thing works for injection of controllers:

``` javascript
export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  exampleController: Ember.inject.controller('example')
});
```

#### gf: Explicit entity name

With an explicit `layoutName`, `templateName`, or `controllerName`, you can `gf` on the declaration to jump directly to it:

``` javascript
export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  layoutName: 'some/template/name'
});
```

#### gf: Models

If you have a method call that is related to a model, then a `gf` on it will jump to that model. For instance,

``` javascript
export default Ember.Model.extend({
  user: DS.belongsTo("user")
});
```

A `gf` on the "user" in the `belongsTo` call will jump to the user model, if it exists. The method calls that work this way are:

- `createRecord`
- `modelFor`
- `belongsTo`
- `hasMany`

#### gf: Partials

With a `partial` call in the template, you can `gf` directly to the referred template:

``` handlebars
{{partial "partials/foo-bar/baz"}}
```

With a `render` call in a logic file, you can `gf` to the template as well:

``` javascript
this.render('partials/foo-bar/baz');
```

#### gf: Imports

If you have import lines, like this:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';
import ControllerCommonMixin from '../../mixins/controller-common';
import OtherMixin from 'app-name/mixins/other';

export default Ember.Controller.extend(ControllerCommonMixin, OtherMixin)
```

Using `gf` on "../../mixins/controller-common" will send you to the right file, relative to the current one. Using `gf` on "app-name/mixins/other" will also send you to the right file, provided there's a `package.json` file in the app root that defines the app name.

### :Extract

The `:Extract` command is invoked on a range of lines, usually in visual mode. It's only defined in templating languages (handlebars or emblem). It takes the selected lines and moves them to a separate component's template. It also creates a placeholder component file for them.

So, if you have a template that looks like this:

``` handlebars
<header>
  <ul>
    <li>{{#link-to 'index'}}Home{{/link-to}}</li>
    <li>{{#link-to 'login'}}Login{{/link-to}}</li>
  </ul>
</header>
```

You can mark everything within the `<header>` tag and execute this command:

``` vim
:Extract header-navigation
```

This will create the following files:

- `app/components/header-navigation/component.js`
- `app/components/header-navigation/template.hbs`

The original template will now look like this:

``` handlebars
<header>
  {{header-navigation}}
</header>
```

And the header-navigation template file will be opened in a split window and will contain:

``` handlebars
<ul>
  <li>{{#link-to 'index'}}Home{{/link-to}}</li>
  <li>{{#link-to 'login'}}Login{{/link-to}}</li>
</ul>
```

If the original template is an emblem one, the component will also have an emblem template, but if you'd like to specify explicitly what templates you prefer, set the `g:ember_tools_default_logic_filetype` and/or `g:ember_tools_default_template_filetype` configuration variables.

### :Unpack

The `:Unpack` command helps you unpack an imported variable into its component pieces. An example might looks something like this:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  foo: Ember.computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
});
```

Running the `:Unpack` command with the cursor on `Ember.Controller` would lead to the following result:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { Controller } = Ember;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: Ember.computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
});
```

The command creates a `const { ... } = ` line that unpacks the `Ember` variable's `Controller` component into its own variable.

You can continue to run `:Unpack` on, for instance, `Ember.computed.equal`, and then once again on the remaining `computed.equal` (if you have [repeat.vim](https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat) installed, you can just trigger the `.` mapping) to get:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { Controller, computed } = Ember;
const { equal } = computed;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: equal('bar', 'baz')
});
```

The command adds new entries to the end of the list. If you'd like to sort them in some way afterwards, you can try using a different plugin of mine, [sideways](https://github.com/AndrewRadev/sideways.vim).

### :Inline

The `:Inline` command inlines an "unpacked" variable. If you have code like this:

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { computed, Controller } = Ember;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
  bar: computed.equal('baz', 'qux')
});
```

Running `:Inline` on `computed` within the `const { ... }` definition will remove it from that list and replace it across the file (ignoring strings and comments) with `Ember.computed`.

``` javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { Controller } = Ember;

export default Controller.extend({
  foo: Ember.computed.equal('bar', 'baz')
  bar: Ember.computed.equal('baz', 'qux')
});
```

For now, this is simply a reversal of the `:Unpack` command. In the future, the `:Inline` command might also inline other kinds of constructs, like local variables or properties.

## Settings

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_default_logic_filetype = 'coffee'
```

Default value: javascript

This variable controls the default logic filetype the plugin will use. In general, it'll try to use the same filetype as the current file (javascript or coffeescript), but in situations when it can't guess, it'll read this variable to find the "default" preference.

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_default_template_filetype = 'emblem'
```

Default value: handlebars

This variable controls the default template filetype the plugin will use. In general, it'll try to use the same filetype as the current file (handlebars or emblem), but in situations when it can't guess, it'll read this variable to find the "default" preference.

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_custom_gf_callbacks = ['SomeFunctionName']
```
Default value: []

This variable allows the user to set up custom callbacks for the `gf` mapping. It should be a list of function names. The plugin will call those without any arguments, in order, and if any of them return anything that's not an empty string, it'll stop execution and use that as the result.

The current directory for the duration of the callback will be the ember root. Also, at this time, the `iskeyword` parameter will be set to include the "." and "/" characters, in order to make it easier to match some ember identifiers. Feel free to change it in your callbacks, it will be reset once the callback is done.

An example of what you could potentially do can be found in this gist: https://gist.github.com/AndrewRadev/c62132f96deca165b8969eba7bc1dc13

There's quite a few project-specific things, which is why it's not a general-purpose callback. There's also a few invocations of the plugin's public API, which, unfortunately, you would have to read the source code to understand.

``` vim
let g:ember_tools_extract_behaviour = 'component-dir'
```

Default value: "separate-template"

This setting controls the behaviour of `:Extract` regarding what kind of files to generate and where. The options are:

- "separate-template" (the default):
    - Component file: `app/components/<component-name>.js`
    - Template file: `app/templates/components/<component-name>.hbs`
- "component-dir"
    - Component file: `app/components/<component-name>/component.js`
    - Template file: `app/components/<component-name>/template.hbs`

The file extensions might not be "js" and "hbs", depending on what the current filetype is and what other settings are set to.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome, but take a look at [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/AndrewRadev/ember_tools.vim/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first for some guidelines.
